# 14: Privacy of mail and deliveries

I need to figure out how to reasonably deal mail and deliveries privately.

## How it started

I donated to a local nonprofit in 2024, and I really shouldn't say this, but I honestly wish I never
did.  However, this is not due to a reason you probably expect.

I started to receive significantly more junk mail from charitable nonprofits and groups, more so
than usual (at least since the 2020 COVID-19 pandemic).  I won't name specific names, but this was a
local nonprofit which has a total annual budget size between the order of $1 million and $10
million.

(To the reader: if we know each other IRL, then I'll tell you who the offending org is; and if your
savvy with implementing an actionable fix with the issue below, then maybe we can work out a way for
me to get out of this rut of a "situation" -- as if this is or should be by highest priority project
to take on right now.  Let's just say that some of you will be surprised by the org I have in mind,
which either intentionally uses the services of data brokers, or at least has some heuristic
workflow that is leaking donor info to data brokers.  The overall situation has a bit of a tragic
irony.)

I'm (usually) not a vengeful person, at least when it comes to nonprofit orgs genuinely acting in
good faith; but I am keeping a running list of these others orgs that engage in
buying/selling/sharing snail mail lists as orgs I won't donate money to in the future, due to their
respective disregard for mail privacy.  However, there are 3 national-level orgs that have (so far)
never sold out to physical mail lists: the [ACLU](https://www.aclu.org/), including state chapters;
the [EFF](https://www.eff.org/); and the [Freedom of the Press Foundation](https://freedom.press/).
I am purposefully excluding comparatively technical groups that would respect the privacy and
security of others in general, such as the [Signal Foundation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Signal_Foundation)
and [The Tor Project](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Tor_Project).

On the other hand, the only other way to avoid excessive physical mail list tracking is to donate to
small local nonprofits.  (Any method is fine -- if you're super concerned about protecting your
membership info, using a PO box for your mailing address and renewing your member dues via paper
check is more than sufficient for most local community members.)  This is because these groups
literally don't have the money to spend for mass mail solicitations or blanket marketing.

After this happened, I expressed to a local activist about how I'm going to go straight for a paid
plan on Privacy.com (at least the lower tier) and skip the free plan.  Additionally, I commented
that I reaction was essentially the "I can't believe you've done this"
[meme](https://knowyourmeme.com/memes/i-cant-believe-youve-done-this).  (Somehow, I was initially
confused this with the "Charlie bit my finger" [meme](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Charlie_Bit_My_Finger).)

## How it's going (and the future)

I no longer think it's safe for me to order computers and ship the delivery to my residential
address, using my own debit card.  (That does remind me - I really should get a credit card for
better payment protection and everything else that encompasses.)

I remembered that I ordered the [HP Dev One](https://hpdevone.com/) in 2022 and the box's outer
shipping box wasn't even taped closed when it arrived on my doorstep.  Due to my living situation
since 2020, I no longer trust anything that goes through the mail, and after Andrew "bunnie" Huang's
[assessment](https://www.bunniestudios.com/blog/2024/turning-everyday-gadgets-into-bombs-is-a-bad-idea/)
of overall supply chain security after the 2024 exploding pager
[incident](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2024_Lebanon_electronic_device_attacks) in Lebanon, I think
it's about high time I figure out the logistics of shipping to a private mail box (PMB) - or maybe I
use a friend's address and/or credit card to purchase an online only computer (while I pay my friend
for the cost, of course).

However, quite a few large computer manufacturers, who primarily have B2B (business-to-business)
though also some minor B2C (business-to-consumer) sales, will tell customers that sending deliveries
to a PO Box is not allowed during checkout.  This includes Lenovo, HP, and even Framework.  (I have
to double check for System76.)  This is partly why I was sad when Costco no longer sold any in-store
ThinkPad laptops anymore (one probable cause might be the pandemic, but that's another matter).

If you have any somewhat serious considerations to become a Linux distro maintainer or even a
package manager (such as the AUR/MPR), you should at least consider this while threat modeling.  I
recall [Ariadne Conill](https://ariadne.space/) tweeting about how a Lenovo ThinkPad laptop that
they tried ordering online was suspiciously redirected to [Langely, Virginia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Langley,_Virginia)
while en route to their home in early 2022, which was symptomatic of mail
[interdiction](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Interdiction#United_States).  However, those tweets
were deleted around late 2022 or early 2023.
